start open the video coughing always a
strong suit um I've got a question from
a new member of Patriot named Dan
Hellman Dan helmet is basically asking
me in exchange for his one dollar thanks
to your contribution dan uh what do I
think about utilitarianism this is
something that has been discussed within
this patreon group recently primarily
because of mod vegan mod vegan is both a
regular viewer and someone who has her
own YouTube channel etc I have to ask
you guys to begin with to sympathize the
fact that utilitarianism is a philosophy
has simply failed to address the issues
that matter to me personally okay
endangered languages endangered
indigenous languages Kree a jib way
Mohawk with in Southeast Asia a bunch of
languages even more obscure okay what
did utilitarianism episode of that what
does the principle of the happiness of
the greatest number of people you
demonism the core of utilitarianism
Jeremy Bentham John Stuart Mill going
back to the roots what does that have to
say about endangered languages it's
actually a political framework that is
at best indifferent to my core interests
indigenous people and colonialism and
specifically this question of languages
and at worst i think it's hostile to it
right just happenstance okay if you want
to know me if you want to respect me you
can just recognize that respect that
about me it's not that big a deal um
okay what is utilitarian asthma to say
about the Vietnam War or American
military engagement in Cambodia and
Vietnam basically nothing I'm sorry if
that's yes you guys can go when you can
dig up in some obscure academic journals
what utilitarians what self-identified
utilitarians had to say about those
momentous historical events I'm sure
there are a couple essays out there but
for one thing it's trivial for another
thing nobody cared for another thing
it's utterly failed to change the world
and you utilitarians had no voice in
those debates and this is not the only
example but my point is the issue
that have mattered to me personally
utilitarianism has has failed to have
message on now I did study Jeremy
Bentham John Stuart Mill etc in
University and I did a little bit of
reading above and beyond the bare
minimum out of my own personal interest
ah the overall shift in philosophy
toward taking suffering itself seriously
is perhaps an element that vegans
appreciate about utilitarianism however
from my perspective it's not their
strong suit because 1 i'm very much
familiar with buddhist philosophy where
suffering is the you know the Alpha and
the Omega of Buddhist philosophy to live
is to suffer is one of the three Noble
Truths it's a huge issue in Buddhist
philosophy I mean to me that element of
utilitarianism is not novel it's not
impressive it doesn't make me respect
utilitarianism and for another you know
Arthur Schopenhauer I think really the
first European philosopher to take that
step towards making suffering itself of
tremendous philosophical at even
socio-political importance was Arthur
Schopenhauer and you know Schopenhauer
then influenced a great many other
philosophers and thinkers so I just say
although i can understand thumb attica
lee why some vegans would get excited
about the emphasis placed on suffering
and reducing suffering that CD
utilitarianism to me it is no big deal
and the other failures utilitarians more
bit more of a big deal below this video
I will provide a link to an earlier
video I made about historical nihilism I
publicly identify as an historical
nihilist and you may contrast that to
what I'm saying here about
utilitarianism I think the most
interesting thing is not to talk about
the details of utilitarianism as a
doctrine you know historically are
presently you know because obviously
there's a difference between Jeremy
Bentham and John Stuart Mill and what
people today I think that what's really
were thinking about is the significance
of having a philosophy itself what does
it mean for me as an individual or
anyone to have a philosophy why would it
matter what difference would it make
especially for diamonds unlike
utilitarianism which failed to make a
difference in the real world for example
at the 1954 Geneva Convention on Vietnam
you know at any stage of the paris peace
accords in Vietnam you know
utilitarianism you're talking about a
philosophy that is a failure to a
massive extent it's much more of a
failure than positivism by Augusta
Campos is much more filler than
communism communism still still to this
day really influences world events here
in China especially but all over the
world even though again as you may have
guessed I am NOT a communist I'm an
anti-communist I'm a critic of communism
but still I recognize communism in 2016
is more influential than Buddhism much
more influential in a real world context
but given that you're already throwing
that away given that utilitarianism is a
failure in that realpolitik elements of
how a philosophy can change the world
what does it matter what difference can
it make I think that philosophy matters
as a set of problem-solving methods I
think that philosophy can matter in
terms of the problems it selects the
problems it raises and I think that
finally thirdly a philosophy commodity
you personally just for thematic reasons
in the same way that poetry may matter
to you that you just appreciate a
philosopher or certain books of
philosophy because of the themes they
evoke and thus you know anaesthetic and
emotional response more than the
problem-solving element I'm talking
about I have to just ask you to
appreciate for me utilitarianism is a
total failure under all three headings
it does not provide problem-solving
methods that are relevant to me and what
matters in my life I've already given
examples what's the future of the Korean
the edge it within Canada for real I
care all right all right we know I don't
know what's the future tera vaada
Buddhism and Laos what the future of
anybody in Laos given that louse is
currently a communist dictatorship
what's the future of democracy and
Thailand for that matter you know given
that Thailand is currently a military
dictatorship a capitalist military
detention you know what you know you are
looking at somebody on video I myself
despite all the research I did on
Cambodia Laos Haiti you know these
bizarre episodes in u.s. foreign policy
u.s. foreign policy in Haiti is an
incredibly ugly chapter of American
history I was willing to join the
military i signed up a couple of months
ago to fight in the current wars against
Isis etc okay why is that this could be
a one hour video talking about how I
feel about that and what what the
differences are I do not think that the
role of u.s. foreign policy in Middle
East now fighting against Isis I do not
think that's morally equivalent to what
the Americans did to Laos and Cambodia
don't they're very different in many
very important ways however the
theoretical apparatus the
problem-solving methods the questions
the answers i would use in explaining
that to you has absolutely nothing to do
with utilitarianism and indeed even the
issues i would explain in my analysis of
effective activism and of effective
charity work outcome evaluation impact
evaluation of what makes charities
effective and ineffective has nothing to
do with utilitarianism so again the i
know these are issues utilitarians
including Peter Singer talk about to
some extent so again to me
utilitarianism is not relevant it
doesn't provide the problem-solving
methods it doesn't even ask the
questions I want to ask it doesn't raise
the problems it doesn't choose to
examine the problems I want to examine
and you know in the third category
thematically or aesthetically no there's
just absolutely nothing of interest to
me there there's nothing that appeals to
me although I started with the cabbie at
the people who perhaps are not familiar
with but it's philosophy or Arthur
Schopenhauer they may just be thrilled
by the shift towards the focus on
suffering as the sort of central fact of
philosophical inquiry and the question
of reducing suffering rather than other
forms of goals ah but look all of these
other ambitions I talked about you know
preserving the use of the Kree language
I don't want the Kree language to go
extinct does that have anything to do
with reducing suffering does that have
anything to do with the greatest
happiness the greatest number of people
uh as a from my perspective an
historical nihilist perspective etc
these issues and themes and problem
solving methods presented by
utilitarianism they have no salience to
my life and they have no science aliens
to the large-scale political questions
that my generation has to answer